{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf190
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red52\green110\blue183;\red38\green38\blue38;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720

\f0\fs24 \cf0 #Codebook for run_analysis.R\
\
**Data source:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720\sa300
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata/projectfiles/UCI"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf2 https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip}}
\f1 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf3 The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. \
The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain. See 'features_info.txt' for more details.\
The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz.\
Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). \
Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). \
\
These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  \
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.\
\
\
\
####Data transformations:\
**Merged the training and the test sets to create one data set.\
**Extracted only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. \
**Used descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set\
**Labeled the data set with descriptive names\
**Meanings of the variables = the average of each variable for each activity and each subject. \
\
####Final dataframe columns:\
\
* **subjectid**: person id observed, (1-30)\
* **activity**:     activity  names: "WALKING", "WALKING_UPSTAIRS", "WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS", "SITTING", "STANDING", LAYING" \
* **Means\
* **MeasuredFeature containing the belowe values:\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyAcc.mean.X\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyAcc.mean.Y\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyAcc.mean.Z\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyAcc.std.X\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyAcc.std.Y\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyAcc.std.Z\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tGravityAcc.mean.X\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tGravityAcc.mean.Y\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tGravityAcc.mean.Z\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tGravityAcc.std.X\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tGravityAcc.std.Y\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tGravityAcc.std.Z\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyAccJerk.mean.X\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyAccJerk.mean.Y\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyAccJerk.mean.Z\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyAccJerk.std.X\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyAccJerk.std.Y\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyAccJerk.std.Z\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyGyro.mean.X\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyGyro.mean.Y\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyGyro.mean.Z\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyGyro.std.X\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyGyro.std.Y\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyGyro.std.Z\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyGyroJerk.mean.X\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyGyroJerk.mean.Y\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyGyroJerk.mean.Z\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyGyroJerk.std.X\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyGyroJerk.std.Y\
\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyGyroJerk.std.Z\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf0  	\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyAccMag.mean\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyAccMag.std\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 tGravityAccMag.mean\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 tGravityAccMag.std\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyAccJerkMag.mean\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyAccJerkMag.std\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyGyroMag.mean\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyGyroMag.std\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyGyroJerkMag.mean\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 tBodyGyroJerkMag.std\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720
\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAcc.mean.X\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf0  	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAcc.mean.Y\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAcc.mean.Z\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAcc.std.X\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAcc.std.Y\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 BodyAcc.std.Z\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAcc.meanFreq.X\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAcc.meanFreq.Y\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAcc.meanFreq.Z\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAccJerk.mean.X\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAccJerk.mean.Y\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAccJerk.mean.Z\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAccJerk.std.X\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAccJerk.std.Y\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAccJerk.std.Z\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAccJerk.meanFreq.X\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAccJerk.meanFreq.Y\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAccJerk.meanFreq.Z\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyGyro.mean.X\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyGyro.mean.Y\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyGyro.mean.Z\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyGyro.std.X\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyGyro.std.Y\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf3  	* **\cf0 fBodyGyro.std.Z\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyGyro.meanFreq.X\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyGyro.meanFreq.Y\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyGyro.meanFreq.Z\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri720
\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAccMag.mean\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri720
\cf0  	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAccMag.std\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyAccMag.meanFreq\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.mean\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.std\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.meanFreq\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyBodyGyroMag.mean\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyBodyGyroMag.std\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyBodyGyroMag.meanFreq\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.mean\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.std\
 	\cf3 * **\cf0 fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.meanFre
\f2\fs22 q
\f1\fs24 \cf3 \
}